The approach will necessarily build on work already done in the WIGOS metadata model, but recognising that the climate, hydrology and other environmental data aspects have not been rigorously considered because the emphasis has been on the synoptic requirements. #1131 collects most of the needs, but does not define a model. So the WIGOS model is a good place to start. 

One of the key problems is how to define a “station”. We can all recognise one, but when you get into the detail, there are difficulties of how you link instruments together. A sonde observation belongs to the station it was launched from, but the sonde may physically be 100 Km away… When you replace instruments, there should be a period of parallel working. In the UK, traditionally, the height of a station was defined as the height of the ground at the location of the daily raingauge, and other instruments referenced this height. 

I have a particular interest in the metadata for an instrument including the date of calibration of that instrument, so it can be linked to the recommended recalibration cycle in order to trigger maintenance action. I am not sure if the WIGOS model includes history of instruments (the predecessor Pub 9 ignored this, and even getting back data on Pub 9 itself is problematic). When I went to Uganda in 1990, Entebbe airport was operating on a Precision Aneroid Barometer which had not been recalibrated since decolonisation in 1978, and was 1.2 HPa in error. It caused no end of trouble when we changed it to a calibrated instrument (and I have a nasty suspicion that no more calibration was done after I left in 1993)…. 

Other issues which are not well covered in the WIGOS model are the need for roll-back of QC changes, and access control for different use cases. The ambition is to hold as much data as possible, and that will include data from cooperating stations. Some of those (e.g. insurance companies) will be willing for their data to be used in bulk products such as maps, but not disclosed directly to their competitors. There is a dense network of AWS in Rwanda for food security insurance, but this market is highly competitive. The WIGOS model will also need extension to cope with data from less formal systems and sites, especially urban sites and the sort of “informal” data in WOW – useful for some purposes, but needs treating carefully. Then there are instruments and observation types which have not featured in traditional climatology – I am involved in a project which has mist gauges – two tipping bucket gauges, one with a mist collector cone of fine filaments above. I don’t know of any CDMS currently used for leaf area index, but the data model should be capable.

I guess one of the issues for us is to decide how to organise our work on data models.
